[Music]
Magister hey guys nice to see you Ryan
here with Greg and we are breaking down
a true detective season 3 yes we are now
before we get started
obviously there are spoilers ahead so if
you haven't finished this episode yet go
finish that then come on back here make
sure you'd like to subscribe because
we're gonna break down the entire season
of True detective starting today all
right Greg our overall thoughts of the
episode okay yes return to form it's the
best way to say yeah honestly it felt
like I just just finished watching
season 1 and then rehearsal all Ollie
shows up and we're back in it for season
3 listen I love season 2 by the way I
like hope elements from that season come
back so sorry the Greg just said that to
you guys I'm alone on an island on that
one but I'm sorry but there are some
things from season 2 that they can
really bring in this season we'll talk
about that throughout the season though
in general but for now what we saw in
episode 1 good stuff I agree with you
yeah really good stuff really strong
start to the season we got a two hour 2
hour the first two episodes premiering
this week we're gonna go through episode
we go through episode 1 today and then
episode 2 will do later in the week very
much in the same tone as season 1 oh I
feel like season season 1 was started
off so strong and then kind of tapered
off towards the end that I would say the
season finale wasn't you know a little
bit overhyped but um still a very good
season of television and then season 2
for myself at least it really took a
deep dip it was it was a little hangover
I'm sorry I hit you with too much noir
I'm sorry yeah that's just what it was
but this one was is an excellent start
we're back into the we're in the ozarks
kind of the arc outside of arc of
Fayetteville Arkansas yeah and it has
that same kind of feel as we did it back
in in Louisiana
you know very intentionally got very
intentional NIC pizzolatto obviously he
kind of took some of the the feedback
and criticism so to speak of what what
happened in the
blowback from season two and I think
that we're gonna have a really strong
season of television here now episode
one is titled the Great War in modern
memory it's based on a book mhm
specifically the book talks about world
war one now obviously in this context
it's not about world war one but the
book was that was was written by Paul
Facel in 1975 and it was about world war
one like I said all the combat and
specifically like trench warfare and how
that you know affected an entire
generation beyond you know completely
changing how people thought people felt
about mankind society based off that one
huge obviously great with the great Wars
and but in context for the show it's
dealing with Wayne A's our main
character and his dealings in the
Vietnam War and really this case itself
works we're gonna break down a second it
dives into that and also the effects it
has on the people around him as well yep
now not only is a war relevant in this
context but also the Purcell case the
case that is involved in the season
three about some missing children in the
Fayetteville Arkansas area and how that
event can like in itself to a war and
someone's experience at war and and how
it kind of changes how you think far
beyond far beyond the event I think
enough changes how you think one of the
big things are gonna have this year is
memory issues yeah with our main
character Wayne himself and how he has
to deal with that so you never know
what's gonna happen from episode to
episode
take note living a nice stand
if you need it now we have three
different timelines we're dealing with
with three if true detective we have
1980 1990 and then 2015 so one year
where they're working the case next year
detectives at their desk jobs now we're
just noticing that in the first two
episodes and 2015 we have in the old
Wayne Hayes who has looks like he's
suffering way more from his dementia
Alzheimer's yeah it's really kicking it
at this point so yeah and there's
uncertainty you know he'd be yeah he
falls farther into uncertainty in the
1980 timeline he seems like a very sharp
very smart detective you know he's using
his skills from Vietnam as a long-range
reconnaissance patrolman to you know
crack this case and then ten years later
he kind of some of the details are a
little bit foggy and then no much yeah
and then another 25 years later it's he
he misses kintyre pieces of the puzzle
and he's kind of he needs to like kind
of go back to that or get reminded of it
and then it kind of pops back into his
memory including his own wife I hope
this doesn't turn into a MacGuffin his
memory loss or it's like the time is
ticking here we gotta get to this final
clue before it's gone for you I really
hope they don't have that element to
this but I do like where they're going
so far no I think this is a very
effective way to use the timelines and
it is about literally his this the
dissident Gration of his his memory and
how we how we remember things in it you
know do you really experience it if you
don't know what happened to you and all
that kind of stuff but you know as
opposed to like a show like West world
where you know Bernards going around
timelines a memory or kind of used just
to kind of screw with us I feel a
certain points and not you know there is
what I don't want that's what I don't
want is I don't know I feel like this is
in the air yeah I feel like this might
be a little bit better use of the
timelines as opposed to how West world
did it okay so the setting for this
season is just outside Fayetteville
Arkansas so we're looking at Ozarks what
was it season two was LA
and season 1 was Louisiana yeah in fun
fact they almost shot season 1 of true
detective in Arkansas but they opted for
Louisiana because there's more tax
breaks for them to shoot there so this
feels very much like as we mentioned
before season 1 a return to form
Jeremy Sonya even like how he shoots the
first two episodes very unsettling full
of tension and he's a master at these
small towns and that's bringing drama
and and and there's grit to it and kind
of a supernatural feel and some of the
shots it was very like an eerie feeling
the entire time you don't know who to
trust
we're led to you know think that
everyone's kind of guilty and just a
very perfect timing in setting for this
season okay let's break down this case
now the Purcell case Julie and will go
missing and their two detectives taking
care of that case are Wayne Hayes played
by rehearsal Holly and Rowland West's
played by Stephen Dorff Stephen Dorff a
long time coming from blade it took you
had to I was like wait that's him yeah
yeah I had to tell you remind you that I
actually think the Stephen dorks gonna
have a little bit of a comeback after
after watching his performance he's
awesome he's awesome in this shows as an
ally is like probably the best actor we
have out there TV and film I don't know
is incredible in this performance and
yeah a disappearance of two kids that
are just going on their bikes don't come
home after you know dad tells them to
come home at a certain time and gets
dark and and we have no idea what
happened to them and we kind of get
different perspectives on what went down
that that fateful evening um I love how
it was shot with this kind of a slow-mo
panning through the city of the
neighbors that you don't mysterious like
an Agatha Christie yeah setting you up
giving you the characters a little bit
here the whodunit by but at the same
time this is true detective Edie I don't
think they're gonna show their hand that
scene but they want to get you the
setting and let you know here's at least
the characters who know more than
they're letting on now the Purcell case
isn't based on any one specific case in
history but there are some some cases
that happen that may have inspired the
idea behind this one specifically the
West Memphis Three when three teenagers
who were tried and convicted in 1984
or of the murders of three boys in West
Memphis Arkansas the Jacob Wetterling
case in October of 89 when an 11-year
old boy from st. Joseph Minnesota was
kidnapped and murdered that case went
unsolved for 27 years another one the
boys in the Trax in 1987 17-year old
Kevin Ives and his best friend a 16 year
old Don Henry were found dead on the
train tracks in Alexander Arkansas and
also the disappearance of James Dallas
Eggbert which has to do with some
Dungeons and Dragons which we'll get to
later on so you know it's a lot oh came
out and said it wasn't you know based on
anyone's story but I'm sure that the
Kings Ross yeah draw some inspiration
from from some of these horrific things
that happened in the 80s and 90s and so
forth
okay let's start back in 1990 the
deposition we find out that apparently
the guy they put away you didn't do it
all right so we're looking at the same
kind of vibe we got in season one but
we're getting it early in the first
episode yeah so not only is it is the
memory memory a theme of deteriorating
the whole time but also they got the
wrong person
mm-hmm so there's a lot of uncertainty
surrounding this entire case about what
you remember in what the cops actually
eventually ended up putting someone away
for so yeah so it the the initial case
starts the missing children the children
go missing on November 7th on 1980 the
ten-year gap we we presume that Hayes is
no longer working on high-profile cases
he's kind of like what's working the
best job yeah this um that Purcell case
might have been the last one yeah it
kind of an even describes it as you know
life before the Purcell case and life
after their Purcell case where he used
to look at it as like you know life
before the war life after the war but
the Purcell case had such a big impact
on him personally that you know he it's
still an interest of his and he still
doesn't feel he doesn't sit well in his
stomach obviously since that the wrong
person is is is was put away for it but
then 2015 we've learned that he's kind
of rehashing everything again for a TV
show or a documentary so we learn it
it's not over yet so they may not have
found anybody even in 19
depending on what happens but at least
you can go back and go well deposition
half a 1990s and what we learn about
them at least in the 80s they're not the
wisest detectives so we can see how
there are false probably in this case
yeah maybe I disagree a tiny bit that
they weren't the why is this I think
that they were maybe bored they had they
didn't have time they didn't have a lot
of stuff going on I'm talking about the
shooting of almost shooting in the Fox
the first time you see them on camera
they're just getting around I agree with
you they were [ __ ] around they're
kind of fibbing about what they were
doing what they're working on and you
know we see them just having some beers
and it's relaxing and shooting rats
don't think that that means that they
were poor detectives they just a little
slow a little sloppy
a little sloppy is one way to look at it
but also I think that you know coming
back from a war maybe not the most ideal
way to use your skills after doing all
that they kind of came back and it was
like kind of like what are we doing here
we're just kind of chilling in in a job
yeah maybe we can find somebody yeah
they're talking about looking for women
in strip clubs and then go and kick
someone's ass me to cap off the night
yeah it really seems like they have a
lot of time yeah and not much things to
do with that time to fill up that day so
I think it's more of that than as
opposed to them being poor detectives
because as soon as they get the call we
find out that they're they're pretty
effective at their job in terms of what
they have to do they know what they have
to do one last thing about 1990 haze
though he gives out this perfect line
that you should keep with you for the
entire season right here never occurred
to you you might be lying course it did
do you know a rule is everybody's land
yes I believe this is gonna be a
significant theme throughout this whole
season obviously it's a murder mystery
but also you know with the element of
memory and how it's deteriorating
throughout the tour 35 years if he go
through he's kind of an unreliable
narrator we don't know he he's not he's
not doing it on purpose he just doesn't
know all the pieces that that how it and
how it fits together with that element
that means at any point when he's
talking to
the documentary series at any point when
we go back on any character there for
all we know there could be a character
missing just not just a little rest of
evidence there can be an entire
character who might get reminded of
something and then so and then Wow and
that changes everything is a little bit
of our story and there are really cool
parts of this of this episode where the
I guess I would say the timelines kind
of overlap where you get him think
saying one thing but then he pulls out
of his memory into the present and I
liked how that kind of overlapped kind
of just showing the moon like that sound
exactly that's the light yeah and it
shows you how temporary memory is and
and in what you can kind of hold on to
to know if it's true
now the way he keeps snapping out of it
- so far that I've noticed in this
episode is has to do with Vietnam mm-hmm
every time it's he's doing his
reconnaissance job or when he's holding
that photo of Vietnam that's when he
starts to snap out of it and he wants to
be taken out he's like I'm gonna stop
talking I'm ready to go now
so we end this episode on a major
cliffhanger will is dead they found the
body for well but Julie she's still out
there and not only is she's still out
there
apparently in 1990 they got a hit on a
fingerprint only one set of prints hit
Julie puss else she's alive apparently
okay so I decide I gotta dig a little
deeper there's no puppies so he's gotta
be kidding I got full of pepper okay
let's jump into things we've noticed the
Pepe Silvia moment for a true detect
every little thing every tiny thing we
find we're gonna try to break it down
for you and let's get started with the
Purcell house itself right from the
get-go you open the front door what's
missing in the moat you got the two kid
photos yeah but then you got one missing
missing footer at there I mean obviously
it could be just a family photo but if
it's just like husband and wife maybe
they took that [ __ ] down but this could
be a major clue later on so keep that in
mind it's it's obviously there's a
missing photo right there totally now
Julie drew a little picture of her
family together at a wedding
now keep just again if any of my SVU Law
& Order fans out there you're looking at
all these tiny little details or stuff
like this so you can always put
something together like the kids maybe
they wanted their family to get back
together try to stage something staged
something and [ __ ] when itself very
quickly that's an easy go but I don't
think that's what we're going but I keep
that in mind here the kids got these
drawings and they make good note of that
I keep that on camera for a second so
they didn't come to hang on that they
also when they're looking through wills
bedroom a couple books on the on the
counter there yes
we got a Dungeons & Dragons book what's
the title of that the forest of lame
forest of laying yeah now that's I look
this up and it's not an actual book it's
a made-up book for true detective but
Lang is a reference actually to HP
Lovecraft fiction as far back as 1920
you can find that Lang in his writings
is a fictional Plateau and let me read
this make sure it's correct he first
mentioned and described the aspects of
Lang in Sela face celephais in which it
described how
her anaise once barely escaped from the
high-priest not to be described which
wears a quote yellow silken mask over
its face and dwells alone in a
prehistoric stone monastery on the cold
desert plateau of Leng I first of all I
don't know if I pronounced any of that
correctly but it really feels kind of
those yellow kini vibes from season one
and then you get the corn husk dolls in
this season of no faces just the whole
idea a little a little Easter Egg to
throw in there it maybe has no relation
to season one I don't that we're gonna
have any yellow King I don't think we're
gonna do anything like that
I think yellow Kings over but you know
time is a flat circle still we're just
bugs on a rock can avoid okay now this
links up to the actual real-life case in
the 80s with I got it right here
James Dallas and Bert the third he went
missing Michigan State student in 1980s
and this was all linked back to D&D
because at the time the police and
everyone found out that he was playing
that game they had no idea what the game
was at The Dig Dug and they freaked out
there has to be the game right they
spent so much time playing the game oh
they must be devil worshipers some like
that yeah
when in fact you know he was probably
mentally sick or an ill and and it
wasn't the game at all but a nice little
touch in the in the show here to have
that reference so that to keep it in the
background we understand the timeline
and what's going on and kind of the
concerns of the society when children
are kind of in their free time
and speaking of teens and their time and
how they use it
we got the call out to the Black Sabbath
shirt and so we got the satanic panic
right like starting here yeah if you
dress a certain way or you listen to a
certain type of music or you're playing
certain video games or you're reading
comic books you know every all these
these hobbies and interests that
teenagers had at the time you you're
presumed to something to be wrong with
you or your your your worshipping the
devil you know like and the kind of
society kind of overreacted to that and
and and didn't know how to kind of deal
with with all this free time and how
kids and teenagers were for spending it
and in the context of the show you know
three teenagers who might not have
anything to do with the disappearance of
the two kids they're kind of
bundled into this the suspect list
because of whispering yeah right that's
it for night you listen to Black Sabbath
you must have killed them which in fact
does it make you you know guilty at all
is just your kind of judging a book by
it's cover and what someone's that's one
sons wearing now it doesn't help that
they did flub their story a little bit
agree to the detectives we get it early
Freddie burns he tells the cops that
they didn't see anyone at the park but
later on the other kid says what well we
saw him at the park that is dead he saw
so you're screwing up your story just a
little bit you guys got to get together
again you got to be honest 100% when
dealing with you're not drinking they
were drinking the truth will it'll come
to the surface at some point now a fun
little meta moment in the twenty fifteen
timeline the documentary that Hayes is
shooting he's agreed to be interviewed
for is called true criminal a nice
little fun joke for the true detective
filmmakers okay let's talk about Amelia
for a second English teacher at the kids
school we first meet her she's reading a
poem tell me a story by Robert Penn
Warren now that poem itself it's deeply
deeply rooted in southern history and
culture and out warrants from Kentucky
his grandfather would tell him stories
of the Civil War so it feels with a it's
someone who's not happy with change
Ryan's changing this kind of goes with
the town itself really a Reagan era
we're in the eighties things are
changing at the same time people aren't
liking how fast it's moving and then
also you got a moral panic a satanic
panic
everything's going in there it's
clashing so this is a good way to put
this poem in there
yeah and it's a little bit of hangover
from the Vietnam War it yeah unsure
times that were headed for the nation
and even some of the lines here you know
tell me a story in this century a moment
of mania tell me of story make it a
story of great distances in starlight
the name of the story will be time and
you must not pronounce its name tell me
the story of deep delight time you know
tiny be away from time is such a big
theme of this season so I think it's the
perfect little nod to what kind of
foreshadowing of how the themes that
will play out in this in this over the
35-year course of this this case also
just a cool shout out to the camerawork
in this shot when we have the quote on
what
the world what's the name of the world
on the board and you can see what's that
the silhouette of Amelia right there I
love that now let's talk about Hayes and
his job at Vietnam he was a lerp which
is a long-range reconnaissance patrol so
he spent a lot of his time alone very
much alone very much and what was the
job for a lot of these guys over there
high body counts yes yes and they'd be
deep in a jungle and yet you know
getting reconnaissance but they would be
alone for a long time that he works best
when he's alone uh-huh but also that's
got to be a very very hard thing to come
back that's and so he starts to we see
at this in the first episode he's
pulling himself out of his moments he
does not want to go back there next up
what were these kids riding on the tree
well they're obviously doing some
graffiti here we don't know what but I
that could come back around because the
one of the kids Mike I think he's waving
at her right before they go off so we're
gonna probably come back around to that
at some point figure out what the hell
these kids were doing okay let's talk
about Brentwood's house for a second
here yeah Vietnam vet we find out from a
photo that they pick up now let's talk
about that photo just for one quick
second here I could be totally off base
but if you stop they hold on to that
photo for a second if you stop and look
at it yeah listen I watch too many you
know superhero team drama shows right
now so the gift is one of them
and I go blamin happen to notice that
you know veteran character actor garret
dillahunt he is you may see him in this
photo I'm sorry it just looks like him I
hope I didn't just ruin the entire thing
doubtful it could be just some random
actor but I don't know it looks like him
now let's talk about the dolls the
cornhusk dolls that were kind of waiting
for Hayes to find them as he searched
for the bodies deep in the woods and
then one right on top even it was not no
to two of them yes two of them the first
one had a baby's breath of the I think I
believe it's the flower the white flower
in its hands and then the second one had
a baby's breath and then had it some
yellow mm-hmm yellow King
just joking okay some yellow flower is
well in there and they're kind
you know clot hands were clasped on the
dolls now a little background on the
corn husk dolls it's a Native American
toy a doll made out of the dried leaves
or husk of a corn cob and they've been
made by northeastern Native Americans
probably since the beginnings of corn at
agriculture for oh you know over a
thousand years now it's linked with
Native American culture and it's it's
fitting here because of Brett Woodard
someone setting someone up maybe yeah I
try to try to draw in that link between
him who looks like an easy target he's
he's an outsider to this community
mm-hm and and having this aspect then
put in there it also reminds me heavily
of of season one and some of the
figurines and the pagan looking dolls
look good trying to go for it yeah
that's right give you a little bit of a
very very similar feel very similar
field season one in terms of like wow
mystery and supernatural elements and
kind of who's who it made you feel
immediately of pure evil especially when
he's on that walk and he's by himself
and he's there's a monster involved here
yeah there's some and if it's not like
you know a monster in the sense of you
know horns and teeth but it's a monster
in terms of pure evil in the human form
yes when we're published a book
we should put a doctor her now over in
the 2015 timeline we learned a few
things about Amelia
she has since unfortunately passed away
she's mourned by Wayne and her family
obviously and she also in the interim
from you know the years that we've seen
from the from 1980 to 2015 she became
quite a successful writer of a
nonfiction true crime yeah and one of
those books happens to be or we get it
on camera life and death and the Harvest
Moon
now the Harvest Moon is usually several
evenings in the fall where a moonrise
comes soon after sunset
now this results in a lot of bright
moonlight early in the evening
perfect for firming yes summer crops and
what are we firming what's a summer crop
a good one coin
[Music]
all right Gregg we are back in the
office mm-hmm it's been a long day yeah
let's talk about the suspects in this
case let's let's talk about whodunit
starting with the upper cells Tom
Purcell okay well dad what do you what
do you think about Tom Purcell remember
everyone's lying at some point there was
something going on here both parents
know more than they're letting on
something could have went south and this
does swing that way yeah it definitely
does but at the same time I don't think
he's agree with you I don't think I
don't think that he did it I think that
um he's really the way that he's
affected by the tragedy it's taking a
real toll on him and obviously there's
been problems at home for the marriage
but I don't see him as the type that
would plan some elaborate plot to to
take his kids and all that kind of stuff
he's very certain though that they are
not at the house they're gone and
they're missing not yes they are missing
yes yes he doesn't he's not lose hope he
thinks that they're missing until
obviously the very end when we know that
at least what happened to will her soul
what do we think about his wife
obviously they thought she was a suspect
for only one two minutes yeah until she
stepped in the house
same thing here or the only thing I can
see with her is again marital problems
you have kids money issues it seems like
a scenario where basically if if
anything happens between the parents is
they may have had another a third party
involved here and [ __ ] went south but
that's weird the one here
yeah they don't paint her in a very very
good and good light when we're
introduced to her she's out partying
she's out at the bar or meeting other
guys but the the marriage has been rocky
for quite some time remember they got
together you know after three months of
meeting each other and had a kid and
kind of forced into marriage so just
it's been a rocky at home but that
doesn't mean that she's responsible or
it should be high on our suspect list on
who did
what she may know the killer that's all
I can say mmm
okay keep an eye on her moving on the
list how about these boys oh the
teenagers in the Volkswagen the dope
purple Volkswagen yeah again they're
lying about the beer yeah stuff all
teenagers have something guys all
teenagers have something to hide but
that doesn't mean that they responsible
for what happened to the kids the only
thing they screwed up in one kid says
that you know but we didn't see the kids
we never saw me only saw him once
regular parked but the car we saw the in
the opening shot the other kid tells him
that hey we saw him at the park it's all
him in Devil's Den yeah so now hey
it seems like something there I think
does something that like a lot of
teenagers at this time would do right
like when you're not supposed to be
where you were you tell your parents or
you should you know Devil's Den comes as
a negative connotation around the area
you know drugs and whatever's going on
in there and you know then you put two
and two together with some horrible
accident that happen or some tragedy to
happen in the area they're gonna they're
gonna fit and lie whatever they can to
kind of remove themselves from being any
anywhere in the vicinity oh I'm sure
they did something just as [ __ ] up
they did something else but I don't have
I don't think they did anything to the
kids they probably were doing something
else
yeah and it's and as we've seen
throughout the episode it is interesting
just the how kind of judging a book by
it's cover and like how they dress and
what they listen to the music they
listen to you know a panic spreads off
of just black metal yeah like heavy
metal Black Sabbath t-shirts you know
they think that they're Satan was
satanic worshippers but they could be
completely innocent and it's just kind
of like the the timing of the early
nineteen eighties when a lot of parents
you know kind of overreacted to how the
youth were spending their time outside
of you know in at their personal time
moving on the list
Brett Woodard a Vietnam vet as well
right
yes he is right now Brett he's a little
screwed yeah with the police at least
yeah the clues right now will lead to
him even though I I don't I don't think
clues are put there for him and I have a
feeling they won't hear from him all
right so Brett might behind the case but
you know what about this good boy I will
thoughts that Hayes would not shoot you
know I would love with the foxes around
we have the flash back whenever that
happens to what actually happened to the
kids if that Fox just shows up just
looking like oh god I got the Fox knows
the truth the Fox knows the truth but in
all seriousness I think at least for my
opinion I believe that we have not yet
met the suspect I don't think they have
the suspect yeah I don't think I mean
episode 1 I
the show does like to kind of you know
call back to the beginning and and and
kind of reveal like a show us a major
twist and then we find out that hey this
whole time we knew who it was but I
think episode one I don't think that
we've yet met that person hopefully you
know we will soon get some more clues
and I think they're gonna slowly you
know give that to us obvious there's
only eight episodes but episode one
maybe look too soon to reveal the true
identity of who that person is and I
don't think the season is gonna hinge on
the actual killer I think a lot of
things are going on here with the split
up timeline it's more effects on what
happened and what occurred compared to
who did it
now one last guy here that we got to
bring up it's not the uncle great coffee
but I could not be against great coffee
thank you
not the uncle the their cousin he's just
like an uncle to them Dan O'Brien we
have not met him yet but we've not heard
about him
no we've heard about him and what do we
got we have a hole in the wall very
creepy very creepy hole in the wall and
we also have the playboys into the bed
yeah who which you know Tom Purcell says
he has no idea about could be the kid
could be the kid as well could be will
they had Dan at that house too so my
prediction my prediction is that Dan was
not in fact looking at the kids but I
think we could even I think's creeping
on his cousin Lucy which is even you
know that's all horrible so I think that
we're gonna it's it's a little bit of a
you know they want to give us a red
herring and then they're gonna totally
just like yeah flip it on the side on on
us and I think that like he's not will
find out that he's not the most ideal
character an upstanding guy but I don't
think he's responsible for the abduction
of these two kids we're gonna find that
out for a lot of characters that's it
for this episode one breakdown of true
detective season theory but we'll be
back later this week with episode 2
thank you so much for watching hit that
like subscribe button and we want to
leave you with a little gift right
little words of wisdom from our friend
Frank from season 2 if your detective is
there anything in that cup no sorry
bad as this is
long as it is this hurt
I can make you a better man